Have you ever had a hard time remembering something - a list of things to buy at the grocery store, or perhaps the names of new acquaintances? Do you wonder how memory experts are able to accomplish seemingly impossible feats such as memorizing 100,000 digits of pi (Akira Haraguchi)? Let me tell you a secret - is has nothing to do what what your IQ is or whether or not you have "photographic memory". Let me prove this to you. 

Take a second to close your eyes. Try to picture your home, or your most familiar environment. Notice that you are able to clearly visualize the structure of the building, where the walls and the furniture lie, and might even be able to recall where small objects rest on surfaces or what decor is on the wall. This is the power of spatial memory. 

By apply the Method of Loci, more commonly known as the "memory palace," anyone is able to utilize the power of their spatial memory and apply it to memorize almost anything. Essentially, one just needs to use their imagination to visualize objects that represent pieces of information they want to memorize, and place them within their familiar environment.The spatial location attached to these objects allow users to recall information with a much higher level of accuracy. This is the dominant technique that memory experts use today, even in world memory competitions. While the Method of Loci is proven to be a powerful technique, not everyone practices today. This is simply because the visualization process to build a memory palace is a DIFFICULT task. However, with our app - MemAR, everything changes.

MemAR is an augmented reality tool that allows users to seamlessly create and place hologram representations of mnemonic objects in their physical environment. By being able to physically see and visualize these objects, the difficulty in constructing a mental memory palace is reduced tremendously. After creating a few objects in their space, users will be able to simply interact with their environment as they normally would day to day, and the memory palace will build itself. Without the massive amount of concentration and focus needed in the creation process, now everyone can have a memory palace of their own. Whether you are a student memorizing something for a midterm, a professional memorizing a speech, or an elder simply wanting to remember more about your grandchildren - MemAR allows you to accomplish all of this and more. Start building your memory palaces today!
